# Classification and Representation

##Classification

To attempt classification, one method is to use linear regression and map all predictions greater than 0.5 as a 1 and all less than 0.5 as a 0. However, this method doesn't work well because classification is not actually a linear function.

The classification problem is just like the regression problem, except that the values y we now want to predict take on only a small number of discrete values. For now, we will focus on the binary classification problem in which y can take on only two values, 0 and 1. (Most of what we say here will also generalize to the multiple-class case.) For instance, if we are trying to build a spam classifier for email, then x(i) may be some features of a piece of email, and y may be 1 if it is a piece of spam mail, and 0 otherwise. Hence, y∈{0,1}. 0 is also called the negative class, and 1 the positive class, and they are sometimes also denoted by the symbols “-” and “+.” Given x(i), the corresponding y(i) is also called the label for the training example. 

##Hypothesis Representation

We could approach the classification problem ignoring the fact that y is discrete-valued, and use our old linear regression algorithm to try to predict y given x. However, it is easy to construct examples where this method performs very poorly. Intuitively, it also doesn’t make sense for hθ(x) to take values larger than 1 or smaller than 0 when we know that y ∈ {0, 1}. To fix this, let’s change the form for our hypotheses hθ(x) to satisfy 0≤hθ(x)≤1. This is accomplished by plugging θTx into the Logistic Function.

Our new form uses the "Sigmoid Function," also called the "Logistic Function":
hθ(x)=g(θTx)z=θTxg(z)=11+e−z

The following image shows us what the sigmoid function looks like:

The function g(z), shown here, maps any real number to the (0, 1) interval, making it useful for transforming an arbitrary-valued function into a function better suited for classification.

hθ(x) will give us the probability that our output is 1. For example, hθ(x)=0.7 gives us a probability of 70% that our output is 1. Our probability that our prediction is 0 is just the complement of our probability that it is 1 (e.g. if probability that it is 1 is 70%, then the probability that it is 0 is 30%).
hθ(x)=P(y=1|x;θ)=1−P(y=0|x;θ)P(y=0|x;θ)+P(y=1|x;θ)=1

##Decision Boundary

In order to get our discrete 0 or 1 classification, we can translate the output of the hypothesis function as follows:
hθ(x)≥0.5→y=1hθ(x)<0.5→y=0

The way our logistic function g behaves is that when its input is greater than or equal to zero, its output is greater than or equal to 0.5:
g(z)≥0.5whenz≥0

Remember.
z=0,e0=1⇒g(z)=1/2z→∞,e−∞→0⇒g(z)=1z→−∞,e∞→∞⇒g(z)=0

So if our input to g is θTX, then that means:
hθ(x)=g(θTx)≥0.5whenθTx≥0

From these statements we can now say:
θTx≥0⇒y=1θTx<0⇒y=0

The decision boundary is the line that separates the area where y = 0 and where y = 1. It is created by our hypothesis function.

Example:
θ=5−10y=1if5+(−1)x1+0x2≥05−x1≥0−x1≥−5x1≤5

In this case, our decision boundary is a straight vertical line placed on the graph where x1=5, and everything to the left of that denotes y = 1, while everything to the right denotes y = 0.

Again, the input to the sigmoid function g(z) (e.g. θTX) doesn't need to be linear, and could be a function that describes a circle (e.g. z=θ0+θ1x12+θ2x22) or any shape to fit our data.
